# Composition

## Diversity

Diverse communities are better equipped to adapt to change and solve unexpected problems. **lab<sup>2</sup>** encourages diversity and understands its resilience as a community depends on its diversity.

Diversity comes in many different forms. Among others, it can refer to diversity in training, level of expertice, interests, academic, economic, social, and geographical background, race, gender identity, and culture in any form. As all these are aspects of the world we live in, and **lab<sup>2</sup>** inhabits the world, diversity in all of them is desireable. By increasing the breadth of our experience pool, we increase the breadth of problems we are aware of, questions we can tackle, and people we can communicate to. Diversity is at the core of our mission as scientists.

To capitalize on diversity, **lab<sup>2</sup>** must learn to recruit on it. Many mechanisms have been put into practice to this end, but some guidelines can point in the right direction, regardless of your own background and current position. One possible guideline is **making sure you select for convergent evolution, not co-occurrence or drift**. Sometimes, irrelevant traits spread in a population due to their random co-occurrence with successful traits, or their already increased prevalence within the population. However, if a trait is truly successful, it will evolve separately multiple times. This is known as convergent evolution. The best way of making sure a trait is worth selecting is if you see it across successful individuals from multiple unrelated backgrounds. 

Identify what qualities of your experience have allowed you to progress to your current position, and **actively seek out individuals who show those qualities in radically different backgrounds**. Radically different refers to differences with respect to the current population in **lab<sup>2</sup>**, the fields or institutions you work in, or research and science in general. This should be kept in mind by **lab<sup>2</sup>** members in any level of selection committee, from graduate students selecting undergraduates interns to faculty on institutional leadership searches. Finally, listen and engage with your community on these manners: no individual is diverse without a context for it to manifest in.

## Organization

Academic labs such as **lab<sup>2</sup>** are complex ecosystems that house members in many different positions. These can include (in no particular order) principal investigators (PIs), administrative assistants, dedicated funding or scientific writing staff, lab managers, technicians, research associates, senior scientists, undergraduate and graduate students, postdoctoral researchers (postdocs), visiting researchers ranging from highschool intern to visiting professor, and participant-observers and collaborators of different kinds, such as anthropologists, artists-in-residence, and institutional or governmental regulators. People in these positions may be part of the lab for a day or a lifetime, and individuals may occupy different positions in the same lab throughout their career or at once.

It is customary to think of these positions in the lab in terms of their roles and responsibilities. However, a more nuanced understanding could be to think of their interests. Trainees such as students or postdocs are usually interested in acquiring the tools and credentials necessary to continue their scientific career, wherever that may lead them to. Principal investigators are usually interested in ensuring the lab’s continuity. However, in the same way that cells in different tissues work in concert to achieve growth and reproduction, a common interest of all lab members is effective function towards the [lab mission](philosophy.md), which at **lab<sup>2</sup>** means advancing trainee interests.

**Focusing on interests rather than roles carries the advantage of clearer expectations for lab members.** For instance, technicians fulfilling similar roles on paper could see their current position as a stepping stone to grad school or as a long-term position with room to grow in and flourish as a career staff scientist. The expectations, requirements, and advantages of each are very different, and entail different relationships within the lab. In this way, roles evolve to follow interests. 

This strategy implies members of **lab<sup>2</sup>** in all positions communicating their interests as they become clear and change with transparency. Achieving this is not necessarilly easy, but carefully designing the lab’s operating structure can help do so.

## Governance

Unfortunately, dependencies between the interests of lab members holding different positions are often asymmetric, leading to asymmetries in power. These asymmetries, which are particularly entrenched in the hierarchies of academia, can make candid communication difficult. To minimize this problem, **lab<sup>2</sup>** aims to flatten its hierarchies at the level of all decision-making.

Periodic lab meetings dedicated to lab business proceed with lab members summarizing any developments that require decisionmaking as a lab. **Decisionmaking as a lab happens for any matter that exceeds a single lab member’s resources in terms of time, money, expertise, or other factors.** It includes, among others, new member recruitment, funding acquisition, equipment purchases, budget distribution, collaborations, research directions, publishing, authorship, recommendations, and lab practices and guidelines themselves. Ideally, **lab<sup>2</sup>** is of a size small enough for desisions to be made by unanimous consensus, product of continued debate. Super or simple majority can be used when consensus fails, and the PI(s) can arbiter tie-breaks.

As this is not the traditional way of running a lab, some clarificatoins may be useful. First, as we have already discussed above, it is understood that lab members have different interests. Participation in decisionmaking is always welcome, but not compulsory nor expected. Second, this method of decisionmaking is not meant to deny the differing levels of experience and expertise of different lab members. Rather, it is a pedagogical opportunity for less experienced members to learn on the job with guidance from more experienced ones through discussion. PIs, given the nature of their interests and experience, probably are in the best position to participate and offer guidance in all decisionmaking.

The success of a scheme such as this hinges on its generalized implementation. By distributing decisionmaking power across lab members, fear of retribution from any given member (including PIs) is diluted to a degree where earnest communication and participation is possible. Crucially, this includes letters of recommendation, which are drafted with input from the lab as a whole (save, of course, the member being recommended). Outside resources for conflict resolution available at the institution are pointed to as valuable points of contact for matters that require them.

**By taking advantage of democracy in governance, lab<sup>2</sup> can boast a more balanced organizational structure, allowing for more diversity and better ability to diagnose, solve, and communicate problems of science and society.**
